Let's learn some things about JavaScript,
shall we?
So we can do an npm test in here.
Might even spell it correctly.
And you can see that
it runs all the tests.
One pro tip is if you just one of the one
that's entitled like exercise, right?
I can do either npm test and
I can do exercise and
it'll just do a partial file match.
So now, you can see anyone's word
exercise in there will work.
And then the ones that
don't have that won't run.
I could write exercise.ts, whatever.
It all happens.
The other option is hit H, and then I can
do it by file name, so on and so forth.
We'll look at some other ways to find
just the test that you're looking for
as well, but that's enough to
get us started at this point.
So let's mark this first one as active and
we'll hit save and our tests have run.
And you can see that it breaks.
Why does it break?
Cuz JavaScript doesn't have the concept
of anything that's not afloat.
So as we all know,
0.2 + 0.1 obviously equals 0.3,
a bunch of 0s, and then a 4, right?
Part of the subtext for some of this is,
we all know what happens when
your tests get flaky, right?
You stop writing them and
then you turn them off, right?
So some step one is to get to the point
where you're not turning your tests off
because it's hard to up the test coverage
if you're constantly turning them off.
So kind of, then the answer is
kinda hidden in this list up here.
I'm gonna guess that has toBeCloseTo.
ToBe, CloseTo, cool.
And that is roughly looking for
a certain amount of precision.
If you hover over it, IntelliSense
tells us that it also will take
a certain number of digits in which
you wish for it to be close to.
So for instance, I might choose 2 if I
was doing money, hypothetically, right?
In this case, as an example,
I don't really care.
The one thing that I don't know if
I noticed until just right now,
is if you look at the VI.,
the type is a just assertion.
Again, once again showing that
everything we're doing in vitest,
if you love Jest, that works too.
And it'll do the thing, cool.
So we'll save this one and
look it up here.
If we need to see if something is
an instance of a particular class cuz if
we look at createPerson,
all that really does is instantiate a new
person class or constructor rather,
depending on, that's where I
accidentally tell you how old I am.
And so we can do expect this person
toBeInstanceOf(Person), right?
Anything that has that as a constructor
in the prototype chain will
pass in that case as well.
This will be somewhat useful to us,
momentarily.
Great, and
then we have the describe block.
What does the describe block do?
It basically, if you looked in that
UI before, it organizes your test.
So it indents them and
puts them all together.
You can skip a whole bunch, or
you can todo a whole bunch,
or you can only a whole bunch.
It's just a way of organizing your tests.
Do you need to do a describe block?
You do not.
If you just wanna write it or
tests at the top level, what Jest and
vitest do is they just wrap
that all in a describe, right?
A file is effectively wrapped in a suite,
but
then you can nest these
as much as you want.
You shouldn't, but you could, and
they will share any kinda hooks that
we'll see in a little bit as well.
Cool, and so in this case,
we wanna see it should include a Backlog
in one of its many statuses, right?
And so in this case,
we can do expect(board).toContain.
The word Backlog, right, and
this is effectively doing Backlog.
>> Is there not toInclude?
>> In this case, it is toContain,
but after the board.statuses,
let's find out together.
I know it's toContain,
which I will never at this point in my
life remember strings have a .contain and
arrays have a .include, or vice-versa.
So strings have a includes and
arrays have a contains,
so,
>> I don't know if
there's a contain at all.
>> That's includes, I don't know.
It's the test assertion is toContain.
We could also do the opposite of that,
which is we can assert that it does
not have that thing in it, right?
Or not toContain.
Cool, as you can see,
we're kinda passing as we go through, but
I did need to unblock that one.
Sweet, you'll see the number
that says todo here, right?
That's a great way to get
a sanity check on whether or
not you are actually
whittling down that list.
And that is different than
them being skipped per se,
only in a nomenclature way, right?
It's the same thing, but
it's a way for you to keep track.
Cool, and now we get a little more
detailed here, which is we should be able
to add something, add a status to
the board and then see this there as well.
And so we could say something like,
we'll get rid of this for a second.
And we'll say board.addStatus and
we'll say, what are we looking for?
Verifying, pick whatever you want.
And then we can expect that
if we call that addStatus,
then it should be in there.
And you'll see that one of the things
that I'm doing here, if you don't spell
it right cuz you're talking and coding at
the same time, you have issues as well.
It's kinda common pattern for
tests, which is kinda a setup.
The exercise, and
then we can kind of verify, right?
And so you kinda break it into
these three phases as well.
Can you use a before each
to create this board?
You can.
I choose not to because,
you know what I don't need in my tests?
Things to be abstracted and clever.
I just wanna see what's going on.
When my test is failing,
I'm not in the mood to like scroll up and
look to see where that
thing was populated.
You think everything's gonna reuse
the same object and then you find out very
quickly that now you actually need
different ones in some cases.
Cool, and so we can go ahead and
we can also remove one as well.
And this will be the same basic
idea in this case, right?
So we can say board.removeStatus and we'll
say Backlog, and then we should expect.
Now, this one's an interesting one cuz I
might choose to do this one in two steps,
right?
Cuz if I remove one that's not there,
it could still pass,
right, if I mess this up.
So this one, I might choose to
write two sets of expectations.
One that it's there and
then that it's not, Mark?
>> If addStatus was an async
call to the server,
would the test look similar to this?
>> I'm gonna answer that question now and
we'll talk about this and
this will kinda help us
skip a section later.
So the question was,
if addStatus was asynchronous,
what would happen, right?
And it all depends right,
in this particular test,
it would fail because we
run a function from top to
bottom in JavaScript before
we check the event loop.
So here we would add it and then we
would have thought that was in there and
it wouldn't be in there yet, right?
That said, if for instance,
whereas this gets a little bit
more problematic would be this test here,
right, which is, it's a lot harder.
If it wasn't in there,
you get to some weird edge cases, right,
because this wouldn't have happened yet.
If things do return a promise, which is
very easy in the modern era to simulate,
boom, now it's an asynchronous
function that returns a promise.
RemoveStatus, And
we can say not toContain Backlog.
Cool, and then so this one passes.
Did I save that file?
Async move statuses.
Cuz it's modifying the object.
If I was waiting for a return value,
this wouldn't happen.
Because it's a class,
it just happens to work.
But you could see a word where it's like,
if there's a function return value,
we wouldn't have it yet.
And this is where it can
become somewhat tricky.
If you need to deal with the fact that you
need the actual function to get called and
fully resolved first,
that is relatively straightforward.
You can just make it an async function and
await it, right?
And so, it depends, the problem here
is that if I misspelled this one,
It also still passes even
though it shouldn't, right?
And this is where you might
choose to make a test fail to
make sure you're getting what you want.
If you ever have any suspicion,
particularly when you're dealing with
asynchronous things, because again,
the absence of a failure is
technically passing, right?
And this can bite you in fun and
unexpected ways.
>> Because maybe Backlog F was
never there to begin with?
>> Yeah, and so it's passing cuz it works,
you know what I mean?
It's true, and this is why sometimes you
would want to either make your tests fail
or to say toContain or something along
those lines to at least get the feedback
loop that you're not-
>> To expect in that same plan.
>> Yeah, I might expect that it's in there
first and then expect that it's not.
And there are other ways you can
structure this as well, right?
Here, I've made a, this would catch it,
right, cuz it's not in there.
However, still subtly broken but
passing, right?
And my recommendation for
how to solve that would be
to just take yourself out of
the equation as much as you can and
just store it in a variable,
which is cool.
We have a status because spelling
a variable name wrong will blow up in
your face.
We'll expect that it's in there,
remove it,
and then expect that that
same one is not in there.
And this is going to make you a lot
happier as a person because now your test
will not accidently pass because
of some reason in this case, yeah.
>> It's all the same one time so we can
assume you'd almost wanna set that more
higher up globally if you're gonna use
it for multiple tests in the same suite?
>> Maybe, maybe, right?
Could I do it before age or
even if it was, and then reset it?
Yes, and we'll see how to do that, but
then it's tricky because now,
I'm not very smart.
And if I don't see it in my very
large font editor right now,
it becomes tricky as I have to scroll
up to verify things I wanna have.
For a lot of times, like the whole
do not repeat yourself kinda thing,
I think is true for the actual
implementation of writing software.
Sometimes for my test,
I would rather repeat myself.
It have to be incredibly explicit,
particularly when I'm refactoring code and
I didn't expect a test to break.
My patience is way lower than if I'm
writing a feature for the very first time.
And so in those cases a lot of times,
I will choose to repeat myself.
Cuz then all of a sudden, you set one, but
you need this one to actually be a little
bit different and it just gets confusing.
But then there are some times where it's,
if it is a lot of work each time,
then yeah, you can do it before each or
something along those lines.
It is kind of defer to your judgment,
in this case.